Do you want me to evaluate your speech?
This is a request I've received a number
of times over the past few years. And
finally, I've set up the mechanics where
you can actually choose this option
within my stand store. And at the end of
the video, I'm going to explain exactly
how you can choose this service, where I
can evaluate your speech, give you a
custom video. But for the purposes of
this video, I wanted to evaluate a
recent speech that I received from a
gentleman named Saurin, who is a
toastmaster in Romania. And he sent me
his speech. It's about 9 minutes. And I
watched it about a month and a half ago.
And I was thinking, okay, I when I have
more time, I have to do a dedicated
video and do almost reaction style. So,
it's been a long time since I've watched
this speech. I'm gonna watch it again
with you coming up right away and I will
pause it from time to time and break
down exactly what Saurin did really well
and areas that he could have improved on
his speech. All right, let's take a look
at Saurin's speech.
>> It is said that 99% of gamblers quit
before they win big.
>> I'm going to stop right there. It is
said that 99% of gamblers quit before
they win big. I love that. The humor,
the irony behind that statement. You can
hear the chuckling happening. And Saurin
is clearly a confident speaker. The way
he stands there with the pause before he
even begins his speech and confidently
jumps into it and right into the humor.
You can tell right away this is going to
be an interesting speech. Dear
colleagues, dear friends, today I'm
going to share my journey from the
perspective of 1%.
I had the luck to be introduced to
gambling even as a child. And don't get
me wrong, I know the devastating effects
of gambling that some people have. But I
see gambling not inherently good or bad.
There's always context to it. Growing up
in the early 2000 was an interesting
time.
Outside every school there was a bar and
in that bar a pool table, a darts
machine and somewhere in the corner a
couple of poker slot machines with
lights and sounds. They were calling for
I'm going to stop right there after he
says they were calling for me. So
clearly Saurin injecting the humor early
and this is so powerful because when you
as a speaker have humor in your speech
it connects the audience. They're
wondering, is this going to be an
interesting speech? And the sooner they
start laughing, they relax and they
think, okay, the speaker knows what he's
doing. And I loved the right after the
intro talking about, I had the great
fortune of being introduced to gambling
at a young age. Like, it's hilarious,
right? He's going the complete opposite
of what most of us think about gambling.
And the other thing I want to call out
that Saurin's doing really well here is
the body language. Purposeful body
language. talking about the pool shot,
leans over the darts, and then the the
poker machine with the lights and the
sounds. The risk here that I would
suggest, and it'll be interesting
watching the rest of the speech, is you
don't want to overly force it with body
language. Sometimes it becomes a bit
cringy if you're doing it over the top
for every single thing you're talking
about. But so far, Saurin is doing it.
>> It sounds they were calling for me. that
the simple idea to win money was
magnetically attractive to me. I was
compelled to go and try them out. So I
sat down and I placed my bets
and surely but not I won. For the very
first time in my life I won something. I
made my money 10 times. I was excited. I
was ecstatic. I that night I celebrated.
The next day, however, I came back
trying to replicate the success.
Unfortunately, I wasn't able to. So, I
lost. Okay, you know what they say,
sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.
So, I came back the next day and again I
lost. And I was like, okay, third day is
a charm, you know. And third day, I lost
everything that I won the first day and
more.
So, I was I was mad. I really wanted to
win. So I set a goal that I wanted to
win big. Not only to recover all my
money that I lost, but I wanted to have
a surplus as well. So I tried again and
again and sometimes I would win.
Sometimes I would break even. But most
of the time I would lose everything.
>> So something I want to call out at this
point just after he says sometimes I
would lose everything.
Saurin is clearly a confident speaker
and what I'm really noticing here is his
strategic pauses. There's not a lot of
filler words that he's including. These
are pauses. He looks calm. He looks
confident. He's got that that little
smirk on his face. You can tell he just
has this really good sense of humor. And
naturally, he's a strong speaker. And
you can hear the audience. They're kind
of giddy as they are anticipating what
Saurin's going to be talking about.
Throughout this video, I'm going to talk
about what he's doing well, but also
what he can improve upon. And there's
two things I'm noticing, and this is
really common. We call it the invisible
table. So what the invisible table means
is when our arms get stuck. I'll go on
my tippy toes so you can see. But at
this 45 degree angle and they just go up
and they stay like this. That's what
you're seeing with Saurin. He has his
hands clasped and they're staying at his
chest height. What I like to see is the
hands falling all the way down to the
side and then strategically bringing
them up but then allowing them to fall
down to the side in between. And that's
a little less distracting than always
having them at this elbow bent position.
The other thing I'm noticing a little
bit of what Saurin's doing is somewhat
aimless pacing. And it's not terrible.
He's not distractingly walking all over
these. There are some purposeful
movements here, but there does seem to
be a bit of a wander, a bit of a pace.
And we'll see. This might just be him
telling a story amongst friends and
maybe that fits the vibe of the speech.
But that's one thing I'm keeping an eye
on right now because it seems maybe as
though more purposeful movements and not
that that just wandering that might
actually harm the speech a little bit.
Let's keep watching.
>> Everything
during that time I got introduced to a
new set of friends called lone sharks.
>> I have to stop it there. that point I
got introduced to a new set of friends
called Lone Sharks. His subtle, dry
humor, just dropping that in. This is so
great, especially for a 9-minute speech.
This is a long speech in Toast Masters,
but we're already partway through. We're
2 minutes in, 2 minutes 13 seconds in,
and Saurin is keeping this very, very
interesting to watch thanks to the
humor.
>> A lot of people were afraid of lone
sharks. I was never afraid of them.
They made me grow. They made me be
better. They made me overcome myself.
They would always call me. They were
interested to see how I'm doing, where I
am. Doubling down on the humor here.
They'd always call me. They'd check in.
They'd see how I'm doing. Saurin is
hilarious, and this is really helping to
build on the point that he's making
about gambling, but also just constantly
keeping that audience engaged with the
humor. So far, 10 out of 10 to Saurin on
the humor. He's a really, really funny
speaker.
>> My mother wasn't that interested in me,
>> but I guess
they really helped me to grow. The weird
thing about this, as I kept going and
kept losing money at the p the poker
machines, I noticed something that I was
always able to make money. I was always
able to pay the lone sharks, you know,
when they were pushing me to hit the
deadline. I was always able to find a
way. Gambling got the worst of me, but
also the best of me. I discovered
abilities that I wasn't aware that I
have.
So after a while,
when you have such a high goal to win
big and to recover all the money that
you lost,
if you don't see results, you're going
to start to feel sad, maybe a bit
depressed,
you're putting so much time and effort
and nothing to show for.
So I stepped on that dark path and in
that darkness, I asked myself,
how do those machines work? And surely I
found out quite soon apparently if you
put $1 into the machine the machine
would give back 85 cents
the machine will give 85% of everything
that it's invested into it. 15% goes to
the house. Hence the expression the
house always wins according to the
gaming laws of Romania. However, those
bar owners were a bit tricky. They would
call engineers and they would modify the
machines in such a way that they would
give only 60% and sometimes even less.
I felt betrayed.
Not only that I found out that there's
no way to achieve my goal, but I was
deceived for the past months.
Gandhi said an eye for an eye would make
the whole world blind. But I said, "Fuck
it." So I dig deeper and I went and I
studied and I found
>> I'm going to stop here. So drops the
fbomb. Drops the fbomb. Saurin does in
this speech. I'm okay with that. My
advice to anyone who's especially in a
Toastmasters meeting if you're going to
say a strong piece of profanity,
make it really, really strategic. And so
I think that this is okay in Saurin's
speech, but really walk that line. The
more you swear, that can be really
off-putting for some audience members. I
would have maybe liked to see Saurin use
that word, like the f-word, at like a
part where it was just like he brought
you down this really powerful story.
He it was sort of medium, like halfway
there. And I think that there could have
been an opportunity if you're going to
insist on using a word like that to have
an even bigger impact. So that would be
my suggestion for Saurin is to consider
not using the f-word there because I
think that maybe it dilutes what he's
saying a little bit. By the way, I want
to call back what I was saying before
because I was talking about the
wandering. And as I'm watching this
more, I actually think Saurin's
movements are quite purposeful here.
Maybe it was just in those first few
minutes it looked a bit more random, but
he is pausing to deliver certain key
points. And so I like what I'm seeing.
Also, I'm guessing English isn't
necessarily Saurin's first language. And
his English is fantastic throughout this
speech. And the fact he is not using any
notes, he is storytelling. He's taking
the audience on a journey. This is such
an incredible speech by Saurin.
>> A glitch in the system.
Those machines were equipped with a
protective system in case of a power
cut. They would do something
specifically. So basically, if you would
get a full house or a straight, you
would bet on it and you would have a
chance to double your money. And then if
you would bet again, you would double it
again until you got to a big sum of
money. In the unlikely event of a power
cut during the betting hand, all the
money that you had during the hand would
go into your credits. And for your
protection, once the power came back up,
all the money from that hand would go
into your credits, but
the next the machine would allow you to
beat another similar hand for the next
couple of hands or even higher
sometimes. So, I found a way to block
the machine during a big hand and then I
would call the hostess to come and shut
down my machine. She would have done it
for me.
I started to win.
Finally, I was on the right path.
>> I just love it. I started to win and
like the look at the audience. Saurin is
a master of storytelling, humor, and
then also just those little powerful
phrases that get the laughter from the
audience. Really enjoying the speech.
>> I paid my lone sharks. I was
independent. I felt like an
entrepreneur. I had my own business.
And not only did I start winning big, to
put it this into perspective, if I would
have gone with $100 on a bar, in one
hour I would have been able to make 700
to $1,000. That's how effective this
method was. So after a while, I started
going to I realized how powerful this
is. So I kind of laid low. I wouldn't go
to the same bar more than once a week.
Sometimes I would even win less. But
sometimes I just wanted to show up, you
know, like 20 people surrounding you,
watching you like beat hands betting
more than they earn in a month and they
would look at me, look at this
13year-old with pimples. How can he do
that? It was a bit exciting. It feed my
ego.
So after a while, I started skipping
school. I would wake up. I would go to
the bars. two, three bars, I would make
enough money and then every evening I
would go party. This went on for a
couple of months.
After a couple of months, in one
morning, I took a friend and we went to
a new bar in Bazar.
It was someone somewhere in a basement.
It was like was like going into a
dungeon. And down in that dungeon, there
were 10 machines. 10 poker machines.
just pausing it after 10 poker machines.
I love this. So, he talks about going
down into the basement and the actual
staircase where he's descending. And
this was a comment I made earlier that I
was going to watch out for is overdoing
it with the body language because when
he was talking about playing pool,
playing darts, the machines, my fear
was, okay, is he going to try to put
body language on every single thing he's
talking about? And he didn't. It's
actually been the perfect amount
throughout the speech. So body language
is one of the strongest things Saurin is
doing with this. And if I was in a
speech evaluation contest, there's two
things I know right away that I would be
talking about what Saurin did really
well. The first is humor. Of course, the
humor is so strong in the speech. But
the second I think is body language.
This is really, really effective and
it's adding to his speech.
>> Mariana was the hostess. She came and I
did a trick. She looked at me
skeptically and then she left. 20
minutes later,
a man enters the bar
with shiny hair and a ponytail. He was
looking like Steven Seagal.
In his hand, he was carrying a kana.
He politely invited us to sit at the
table
and he went,
"So, you kids are stealing money from
me?" Huh?
I was shocked. I got caught. I was
speechless.
So he went on, "You know what's going to
happen.
I'm going to take you to the woods.
I'm going to undress you. I'm going to
tie you to a
tree
and I'm going to slice you up."
The tension was real. The whole speech
was not more than one minute
at the tension was real. What I liked
what Saurin did there bringing down his
vocals like this is some powerful
imagery talking about taking them to the
woods with the katana slicing them up
but he brings the voice down and it
immerses the audience. So vocal variety
there really strong.
>> It felt like an etched
his face.
Just kidding. Mariana, pay the kids the
money and let them go.
The humor, the humor throughout this
speech is so well done. I know I keep
pausing it to mention that, but Saurin
should be really proud. And by the way,
I talk about humor as one of the most
important things. I think it is in the
top six important things when you talk
about creating a great speech.
And what Saurin is doing here is even
though the speech is 9 minutes, which is
so easy to lose the audience's
attention, that humor sprinkled every
few, you know, 30 seconds, one minute,
it's keeping our attention. And this is
the strongest aspect about Saurin
speech.
>> I left the bar.
I never felt more alive again.
But that day was the last day that I
ever gambled on focus slot machine. That
speech was so intensive that changed my
whole life. But did I quit gambling? No.
But I chose to use that gambling energy
and use it in different things. You
gamble by stepping outside of the
comfort zone to see what you can make
out of it. You gamble by throwing
yourself into the unknown. Go to a
different country. See what happens.
You gamble by saying yes to a business
opportunity that you're not entirely
sure.
In the end, I think gambling doesn't
necessarily have to happen in a casino.
What doesn't necessarily have to happen
with money?
I choose to gamble with life energy.
So I if you're going to gamble, gamble
on yourself. Gamble on hard work. Gamble
on dreams. Gamble on on love.
Cuz in the end, the really the really
the only really big win is
to have a life that doesn't revolve
around luck. Thank you. Wow.
What a speech, Saurin. He should be so
proud of that. Saurin, if you're
watching this, amazing speech. The final
thing he did really, really well with
this speech is that full circle ending.
So, if I'm my memory serves me correct,
the first thing he talked about was 99%
of gamblers quit before they hit it big.
And then he brings it back to this
somehow idea that gambling is actually a
good thing. But what are you gambling
on? Gamble on love, gamble on life,
gamble on those things that matter. Take
chances, take risks. What an amazing
message to end on. And he always flirted
with this the borderline of where is
this going? And that's what I love is
speakers who are really elite, which I'm
putting Saurin in that elite speaker
level. they're able to
create some tension with the audience
and sort of contradict what it is that
we believe. And I think back to Muhammad
Katani who is one of the I believe the
2015 Toastmasters International speech
winner. He started his presentation by
about to light a cigarette on stage and
then talking about why smoking is
actually good. And when you create this
tension with the audience that goes
against our own beliefs, that is
powerful because then you can twist your
message into what you're actually saying
that aligns, but you've already created
that tension and so the message is going
to land even more powerfully. This was
an incredible speech. If I was doing a
speech evaluation, I would talk about in
order. I would say that humor was the
strongest point. I would give actual
examples of the humor that Saurin used
which were there were countless examples
throughout. The body language was
perfect, not too much, not over the top.
His eye contact was strong with the
audience. And as a third point, I talk
about that structure and the full circle
ending and taking us on a ride through
storytelling.
Things that he could work on, very
minor. It's hard to find good gifts for
Saurin on this, but I would encourage
him with the the invisible table. So to
really practice those movements, get
away early on from some of that random
pacing around the room and allow the
hands to fall to the side. The other
thing I would add in, and I didn't talk
about this midv video, but more
strategic pauses. There's so much humor
in the speech, but I would have liked to
see a bigger emphasis on some of the
humor and allow that to land and then
for him to pause and give that that look
or that eye contact to the audience and
really allow that laughter to build.
Other than that, phenomenal job by
Saurin. And I hope that this reaction
video has helped you, whether you're
taking on a speech evaluation or whether
you just wanted to be entertained by a
great speech, which Saurin certainly
delivered on that. And back to what I
said at the beginning of the video,
which is if you want me to give you a
custom evaluation of your speech, what
you're doing really well, what you need
to work on to take it to the next level,
check out my Stan Store link, which is
the first link in the description, and
there's this option where you can send
me a video of your speech, 10 minutes or
less, and I'm going to send you a
customized video directly to you so you
can take that speech to the next level.
I appreciate you taking the time to
watch this video and I will catch you on
the next one. And don't miss this video
that's popping up right now because I
talk all about how to give a great
speech evaluation as well. Thanks for
all your support.